Add issue templates for community plugins (#45)
mattermost/mattermost-marketplace: CONTRIBUTING.md

### Playbook

The following is a playbook for use by Mattermost core committers.

#### New plugin

After a new plugin has been submitted, the assignee of the issue posts the following message:
```
## Process checklist
- [ ] Create a private fork under the Mattermost organization. `master` should only contain a `README.md`.
- [ ] Give submitter read access to the fork
- [ ] Create PR to merge upstream into `master`.
- [ ] Request reviews
- [ ] [Cut plugin release](https://developers.mattermost.com/internal/plugin-release-process/)
- [ ] Add release to Marketplace
- [ ] Reach out on [Marketing Channel](https://community-release.mattermost.com/private-core/channels/marketing) to tweet about the plugin.
) to tweet about the plugin
- [ ] Work with `@hanna.park` regarding swag
```

#### Update plugin

After an update for an existing plugin has been submitted, the assignee of the issue posts the following message:
```
## Process checklist
- [ ] Create PR to merge changes from upstream into `master`.
- [ ] Request reviews

> - [ ] [Cut plugin release](https://developers.mattermost.com/internal/plugin-release-process/)

Reviewer: As an aside, did we get consensus from @DSchalla re: using the same signing key for community plugins?  (I think so, but just want to triple check.)

Author: Yes, we will be using the same key to sign community plugins.

# Contributing

> Thank you for your interest in contributing! Join the [Plugin Marketplace channel](https://community.mattermost.com/core/channels/plugins-marketplace) on the Mattermost Community Server for discussion about the Plugin Marketplace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Thank you for your interest in contributing! Join the [Plugin Marketplace channel](https://community.mattermost.com/core/channels/plugins-marketplace) on the Mattermost Community server for discussion about the Plugin Marketplace.
```

Author: As pointed out in (https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-marketplace/pull/45#discussion_r391944173) `Community Server` is used in other places.

> ## Reporting Issues

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Reporting issues
```

> If you think you found a bug within the Marketplace code, [please use the GitHub issue tracker](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-marketplace/labels/issues/new) on this repository to open an issue. Bugs in the Marketplace in-product experience should be reported on the [Mattermost Server repository](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-server/issues/new). Please report bugs within specific plugins on their respective issue trackers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you think you've found a bug within the Marketplace code, [please use the GitHub issue tracker](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-marketplace/labels/issues/new) on this repository to open an issue. Bugs in the Marketplace in-product experience should be reported on the [Mattermost Server repository](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-server/issues/new). Please report bugs within specific plugins on their respective issue trackers.
```

> ## Community Plugin

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Community plugin
```

To add your plugin to the Marketplace, please open [an issue using this template](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-marketplace/issues/new?template=add_plugin.md). To update your plugin, please also open an issue [using this template](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-marketplace/issues/new?template=update_plugin.md).

### Playbook

The following is a playbook for use by Mattermost core committers.

> #### New Plugin

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### New plugin
```

After a new plugin has been submitted, the assignee of the issue posts the following message:
```
## Process checklist
- [ ] Create a private fork under the Mattermost organization; `master` should only contain a `README.md`.
- [ ] Give submitter read access to the fork.
- [ ] Create PR to merge upstream into `master`.
- [ ] Request reviews.
- [ ] [Cut plugin release](https://developers.mattermost.com/internal/plugin-release-process).
- [ ] Add release to Marketplace.
- [ ] Reach out on [Marketing Channel](https://community-release.mattermost.com/private-core/channels/marketing) to tweet about the plugin.
- [ ] Work with `@hanna.park` regarding swag.
```

> #### Update Plugin

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Update plugin
```

# Contributing

> Thank you for your interest in contributing! Join the [**Plugin Marketplace channel**](https://community.mattermost.com/core/channels/plugins-marketplace) on the Mattermost community server for discussion about the Plugin Marketplace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Thank you for your interest in contributing! Join the [Plugin Marketplace channel](https://community.mattermost.com/core/channels/plugins-marketplace) on the Mattermost Community server for discussion about the Plugin Marketplace.
```

## Reporting Issues

> If you think you found a bug within the Marketplace code, [please use the GitHub issue tracker](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-marketplace/labels/issues/new) on this repository to open an issue. Bugs in the Marketplace in-product experience should be reported on the [Mattermost Server repository](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-server/issues/new). Please report bugs within specific plugin on their respective issue trackers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you think you found a bug within the Marketplace code, [please use the GitHub issue tracker](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-marketplace/labels/issues/new) on this repository to open an issue. Bugs in the Marketplace in-product experience should be reported on the [Mattermost Server repository](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-server/issues/new). Please report bugs within specific plugins on their respective issue trackers.
```

## Community Plugin

To add your plugin to the Marketplace, please open [an issue using this template](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-marketplace/issues/new?template=add_plugin.md). To update your plugin, please also open an issue [using this template](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-marketplace/issues/new?template=update_plugin.md).

### Playbook

The following is a playbook for use by Mattermost core committers.

#### New Plugin

After a new plugin has been submitted, the assignee of the issue posts the following message:
```
## Process checklist

> - [ ] Create a private fork under the Mattermost organization. `master` should only contain a `README.md`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [ ] Create a private fork under the Mattermost organization; `master` should only contain a `README.md`.
```

> - [ ] Give submitter read access to the fork

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [ ] Give submitter read access to the fork.
```

- [ ] Create PR to merge upstream into `master`.

> - [ ] Request reviews

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [ ] Request reviews.
```

> - [ ] [Cut plugin release](https://developers.mattermost.com/internal/plugin-release-process/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [ ] [Cut plugin release](https://developers.mattermost.com/internal/plugin-release-process).
```

> - [ ] Add release to Marketplace

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [ ] Add release to Marketplace.
```

- [ ] Reach out on [Marketing Channel](https://community-release.mattermost.com/private-core/channels/marketing) to tweet about the plugin.

> ) to tweet about the plugin

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
) to tweet about the plugin
```

Remove.

> - [ ] Work with `@hanna.park` regarding swag

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [ ] Work with `@hanna.park` regarding swag.
```

```

#### Update Plugin

After an update for an existing plugin has been submitted, the assignee of the issue posts the following message:
```
## Process checklist
- [ ] Create PR to merge changes from upstream into `master`.

> - [ ] Request reviews

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [ ] Request reviews.
```

> - [ ] [Cut plugin release](https://developers.mattermost.com/internal/plugin-release-process/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [ ] [Cut plugin release](https://developers.mattermost.com/internal/plugin-release-process).
```

> - [ ] Add release to Marketplace

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [ ] Add release to Marketplace.
```

# Contributing

Thank you for your interest in contributing! Join the [**Plugin Marketplace channel**](https://community.mattermost.com/core/channels/plugins-marketplace) on the Mattermost community server for discussion about this plugin.

## Reporting Issues

> If you think you found a bug, [please use the GitHub issue tracker](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-marketplace/labels/issues/new) to open an issue.

Reviewer: Should we clarify if these are bugs for the marketplace code, the in-product experience, or issues with the plugins themselves?

## Community Plugin

> To add your plugin to the Marketplace, please open [an issue using thus template](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-marketplace/issues/new?template=add_plugin.md). To update your plugin, please also open an issue [using this template](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-marketplace/issues/new?template=update_plugin.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add your plugin to the Marketplace, please open [an issue using this template](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-marketplace/issues/new?template=add_plugin.md). To update your plugin, please also open an issue [using this template](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-marketplace/issues/new?template=update_plugin.md).
```

### Playbook

> This is a playbook used my Mattermost core committers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following is a playback for use by Mattermost core committers.
```

#### New plugin

JIRA template:
  - [PM](https://mattermost.atlassian.net/browse/MM-22224)
  - [Dev](https://mattermost.atlassian.net/browse/MM-22221)
  - [Security](https://mattermost.atlassian.net/browse/MM-22225)
  - [QA](https://mattermost.atlassian.net/browse/MM-22223)

> After a new plugin has been submitted, the assignees of the issue posts the following message:

Reviewer 3: s/assignees/assignee/ - I believe there can only be one assignee

```

> ## Process checklist

Author: I wanted to have a list that I can copy and past in every issue, but I'm 0/5 if `CONTRIBUTING.md` is the right place.

Reviewer: I wonder if a separate `.md` might make it more clear to contributors?

Author: How would you name the file? Should it be in the root directory or in e.g. `docs`?

Reviewer: I wonder if we should just promote this to README.md, and surface this immediately to contributors?

Author: Let's leave it in `CONTRIBUTING.md` and iterate if needed.

> - [ ] Request review and create JIRA tickets and link them here:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ ] Request review, create JIRA tickets, and link them here:
```

    - PM:
    - Dev:
    - Security:
    - QA:

> - [ ] Fork repo under Mattermost oranisation

Reviewer: Did we want to ensure this repository is private to as to avoid polluting the "global namespace"? What should we do if there are naming conflicts (e.g. two `jira` plugins)? Should this fork occur before the JIRA tickets above, such that we do the review in our fork?

Author: > Did we want to ensure this repository is private to as to avoid polluting the "global namespace" ?

I've updated the wording to make clear it should be a private fork.

> What should we do if there are naming conflicts (e.g. two `jira` plugins)? 

Good question. I've updated the dev docs to make clear how a conflict should be resolved.

> Should this fork occur before the JIRA tickets above, such that we do the review in our fork?

I'm inclined to wait with the fork. A review might take a few week or month and iterations on the code will happen.

> - [ ] Cut plugin release

Reviewer: Should we link to `cutPlugin` documentation? Should we be explicit that we only cut a release after review is completed? Do we tag our own releases explicitly (i.e. `mattermost-v2.1.1`)?

Author: > Should we link to `cutPlugin` documentation? 

Where can I find the documentation for `cutPlugin`?

> Should we be explicit that we only cut a release after review is completed? 

The wording on the dev doc make it quite clear that the fork and release cutting only take place after the reviews are done. Given that this is just a checklist, I don't think it doesn't have to be more clear.

> Do we tag our own releases explicitly (i.e. `mattermost-v2.1.1`)?

Why should this be needed? The tag are not visible to the public given that the repos are private.

Reviewer: > Where can I find the documentation for cutPlugin?

I was thinking of https://developers.mattermost.com/internal/plugin-release-process/

> Given that this is just a checklist, I don't think it doesn't have to be more clear.

:+1:

> Why should this be needed? The tag are not visible to the public given that the repos are private.

I suppose it depends on invocation, but I usually see forks containing all the tags from upstream, and we'd want to explicitly disambiguate. Perhaps even require a signed commit from a core committer?

Author: > I suppose it depends on invocation, but I usually see forks containing all the tags from upstream, and we'd want to explicitly disambiguate. Perhaps even require a signed commit from a core committer?

:+1: for requiring signed commit in general.

My concern with a separate naming convention is that people might forget about it and we end up with inconsistencies. Maybe we defer this topic until the first plugin has been released and we can learn from the experience.

> - [ ] Add release to Marketplace

Reviewer: Can we link out to something here?

Author: Since https://github.com/mattermost/matterbuild/pull/15 `cutPlugin` outputs a short script that almost automates adding a release to the Marketplace.

> - [ ] Reach out on [Marketing Channel](https://community-release.mattermost.com/private-core/channels/marketing

Reviewer: Should we mention anyone in particular? Is there a template to follow?
```suggestion
- [ ] Reach out on [Marketing Channel](https://community-release.mattermost.com/private-core/channels/marketing) to tweet about the plugin.
```

) to tweet about the plugin

> - [ ] Work with `@hanna.park` regarding swag

Reviewer: Should we sync up with Hanna so we can be more explicit about expectations here?

Author: I'm working with Hanna on the details. For now, I think this can stay it's way.

```

#### Update plugin

JIRA template:
  - [PM](https://mattermost.atlassian.net/browse/MM-22228)
  - [Dev](https://mattermost.atlassian.net/browse/MM-22222)
  - [Security](https://mattermost.atlassian.net/browse/MM-22226)
  - [QA](https://mattermost.atlassian.net/browse/MM-22227)

After an update for an existing plugin has been submitted, the assignees of the issue posts the following message:
```
## Process checklist
- [ ] Request review and create JIRA tickets and link them here:
    - PM:
    - Dev:
    - Security:
    - QA:

> - [ ] Update fork

Reviewer: Should this occur before creating the tickets? Do we create a pull request to review?

Author: Because of similar reasons as above I would not update the fork right now. Maybe the contributor even wants to wait with cutting a release him/her self until a reviews are done.

My concern with a pull request is that reviews and conversation might take place in the PR instead of the public GitHub issue.

What is the benefit of a pull request?

Reviewer: I think we should streamline the review process for any staff asked to review a process -- having a PR and all the associated tooling makes that easy, otherwise we have to scroll through the diff manually, add inline comments, and mentally keep track of who's approved, etc.

Author: Maybe I misunderstand your idea. In my mind  there would be not review process for the fork update. The review of the update should take place in the original GH issues that the community member opened. After every reviewer approved the changes, the fork update can just happen without further reviews. This is made clear in the developers docs: https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-developer-documentation/pull/524/files#diff-ee526eb501deade82cd69d56e8654e3aR75

Does this makes sense to you?

Reviewer: I think it's still a bit unclear to me. As a potential reviewer, here's how I imagined things playing out:
* Community member submits request to update plugin
* Owner updates Mattermost fork with all upstream changes
* Branch created, initially matching last release (i.e. in a matterpoll fork, `mattermost-v1.3.0` is created pointing at the same commit as `mattermost-v.1.2.0`)
* Pull request to merge upstream into `mattermost-v1.3.0` created in fork for internal review
* Any blocking issues result in feedback on original community request / possibly issues on the repository.

I'm inclined to conduct the review in the context of a PR in order to streamline the process for reviewers, provide an internal audit log, discuss security issues, etc. I'm concerned that conducting the review purely in the original issue will require linking out to diffs and ultimately be more challenging to the reviewers time. If changes have to be made, we'll be juggling commit hashes in comments instead of just updating the merge request and re-triggering review.

Author: As discussed offline, a pull request is now used to merge the changes to `master`
